---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/process/learn-obsidian/","tags":["Effort/Personal"]}
---

# Utilize Obsidian to Produce More
Obsidian is a tool to sustain the minds needed to move thought forward and create compelling products to educate and entertain people.
## Tasks
- [ ] Utilize Linking My Thinking Flight School Vault for training
- [x] Learn how to auto-update properties ✅ 2025-02-20
	- [x] Create date ✅ 2025-02-20
	- [x] Last modified date ✅ 2025-02-20
## Chats and Engrams
[[Library/Imports/Raw Chats 2025-1-12/Building an AI-Powered Second Brain2\|Building an AI-Powered Second Brain2]]
[[Library/Imports/Raw Chats 2025-1-12/Capture Chat in Obsidian\|Capture Chat in Obsidian]]
[[Library/Imports/Raw Chats 2025-1-12/Extending Human Cognition Research\|Extending Human Cognition Research]]
[[Library/Imports/Raw Chats/Ideogram Overview\|Library/Imports/Raw Chats/Ideogram Overview]]
[[Library/Imports/Raw Chats 2025-1-12/Obsidian Wikipedia Addon\|Obsidian Wikipedia Addon]]
[[Library/Imports/Raw Chats 2025-1-12/Obsidian Decision Tree Plugins\|Obsidian Decision Tree Plugins]]
[[Library/Imports/Raw Chats 2025-1-12/Obsidian Plugins\|Obsidian Plugins]]
[[Library/Imports/Raw Chats 2025-1-12/Slip-Box Method Summarized\|Slip-Box Method Summarized]]
[[Library/Imports/Raw Chats 2025-1-12/Solipsistic External Brain\|Solipsistic External Brain]]
[[Library/Imports/Raw Chats 2025-1-12/The Goal by Eliyahu Goldratt\|The Goal by Eliyahu Goldratt]]
[[Library/Imports/Raw Chats 2025-1-12/Visual Thinking Techniques\|Visual Thinking Techniques]]
[[Library/Imports/Raw Chats 2025-1-12/Building an AI-Powered Second Brain2\|Building an AI-Powered Second Brain2]]
[[Library/Imports/Apple Notes/Obsidian procedure and system\|Obsidian procedure and system]]
[[Library/Imports/Raw Chats 2025-1-12/MIT Supermind Ideator Overview\|MIT Supermind Ideator Overview]]
[[Library/Imports/Raw Chats 2025-2-21/Obsidian Properties\|Obsidian Properties]]

## Problem Solving
### Keeping a Pure Second Mind
- I must change my mindset from figuring out how to stuff Obsidian full of information or document every breath I take. It's a tool to facilitate publishing. Any effort beyond that is wasted time.
- I have many mind maps generated by others. They have useful information, but it doesn't mean anything to me because I didn't develop the maps, and I don't use them.
- I have a engram based on a chat that has been languishing in my incubator for a time. I didn't write any of the information. Even though the information is good, I won't add it to the library. 
- I found plugins that would allow me to directly chat with AIs and automatically create engrams based on the conversations, which would generate a lot of notes.
- I like having the information available in my second brain, but I want the information generated by chat or others in locations where it doesn't get mixed with my own curated engrams.
- Bottom line is that I need to keep part Obsidian limited to my own ideas.
- Since I also want access to the supporting information, I need that in Obsidian, but I need to keep them separate.
- I have set up a library folder for Resources that holds any images pasted into engrams. These images are often created by others, so some outside things enter my library here.
- Where should I store linked raw chats or other engrams
### How Do I Open My Obsidian Vault to AI for Collaborative Work?
[[Incubator/Opening vault to AI\|Opening vault to AI]]
## Random Observations
- I need a place to be free with my thoughts.
- I'm slowly learning to use the software.
- I need to keep producing work as I learn this software.
- If I invest time each day, I will improve.
- I've put too high a priority on raw chats and the past.
- I like the concepts I've learned from Linking Your Thinking.
	- I particularly like the ACE method and the concept of Effort instead of projects.
- The problem with MindManager and outlining tools is the lack of connective dimensionality. I could get the levels of an outline, but linking between outlines or even between trees within a file were weak or non-existent. The advantage of Obsidian is that it provides these extra dimensions liberating me from restrictive outlines.
- Merging changes is a problem. I paused the sync. I should close out each time.
- I don't have a process or procedure for free-flowing brainstorming.

### Original Ideas
